This repository is an [MCVE](https://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve)
for the following issues:
- https://github.com/JonathonReinhart/scuba/issues/77
- https://github.com/JonathonReinhart/staticx/issues/22


***FIXED***: The solution was to set `include_package_data = True`.
See below for more details.

---

## Open issues
- https://github.com/pypa/setuptools/issues/1064

## Problem statement

**When `python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel` is invoked from a clean starting
point, data files (identified in `package_data`), which are generated during
setup.py hooks, will not be included in the wheel.**

- From a clean starting point (`git clean -fdx`) (primarily removes
  `mkpkg/generated_data`):
   - `python setup.py bdist_wheel` - OK
   - `python setup.py sdist` then `python setup.py bdist_wheel` - OK
   - `python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel` - BROKEN

## Steps to reproduce

First:
- Run `git clean -fdx` -- remove any generated files
- Run `python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel`
- Observe only the following line in the output:
   - `copying build/lib/mypkg/__init__.py -> build/bdist.linux-x86_64/wheel/mypkg`
- Run `unzip -l dist/mypkg-1.2.3-py2-none-any.whl`
   - Observe that `mypkg/generated_data` is **missing** from the wheel

Now that `mypkg/generated_data` is present:
- Run `python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel` again
- Observe the following lines in the output:
    - `copying build/lib/mypkg/generated_data -> build/bdist.linux-x86_64/wheel/mypkg`
    - `copying build/lib/mypkg/__init__.py -> build/bdist.linux-x86_64/wheel/mypkg`
- Run `unzip -l dist/mypkg-1.2.3-py2-none-any.whl`
   - Observe that `mypkg/generated_data` is **now present** in the wheel

Clean the directory, and run other variations of `sdist` and `bdist_wheel` (as
mentioned above) and observe that the problem does not manifest.

## Workarounds that do *not* work
- Hooking `build_py` instead of `build`

## Solution
Setting `include_package_data = True` caused setup.py to behave as intended.

Note that the [setuptools documentation](http://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html)
is not particularly clear on why this works:

> `include_package_data`
> If set to True, this tells setuptools to automatically include any data files
> it finds inside your package directories that are specified by your
> `MANIFEST.in` file. For more information, see the section below on Including
> Data Files.

> `package_data`
> A dictionary mapping package names to lists of glob patterns. For a complete
> description and examples, see the section below on Including Data Files. You
> do not need to use this option if you are using `include_package_data`,
> unless you need to add e.g. files that are generated by your setup script and
> build process. (And are therefore not in source control or are files that you
> don’t want to include in your source distribution.)

> ...

> In summary, ...

> `include_package_data`
> Accept all data files and directories matched by `MANIFEST.in`.

> `package_data`
> Specify additional patterns to match files and directories that may or may
> not be matched by MANIFEST.in or found in source control.


Nothing in this documentation describes the behavior I was seeing, however.
In my case, it seemed like the files discovered by `sdist` (using `MANIFEST.in`)
somehow *overrode* those that `bdist_wheel` would normally find.

For whatever reason, specifying `include_package_data` seems to have two,
somewhat inverted purposes.
